Hello and welcome to
session 201 on Core Image.
That's me, Ralph Brunner, and
So here's the agenda of this session.
First,
I'm going to explain to you what the
Core Image framework provides and well,
essentially what's there.
Then how to use the API and I will
not go into too much detail there.
There's a nice set of
documentation on this.
But essentially what the spirit
of the API is and what are the
key methods do you have to know.
Then Mark Zimmer will come up
and explain to you how to write
your own image processing kernel.
After that,
Frank Doepke will show you how to
take that image processing kernel
and create an image unit out of it.
And by then you'll hopefully
fully know what an image unit is.
And then I will bore you a little
more at the end with giving you
essentially ideas how this could
be used in various applications.
So if you're not interested
in any of these things and
rather hear about databases,
now would be a good time to leave.
Okay, so what's Core Image?
Core Image is an image processing
framework now in Mac OS X Tiger,
and the goal is really to put
image processing onto the GPU.
It has a full floating point pipeline,
so there is no clamping to
0 to 1 through the pipeline,
and you get really nice deep pixels.
There's a base set of about 60 filters,
which contains various things
from fairly pedestrian stuff like
contrast brightness to some more
funky stuff like bump distortion,
and things like that.
There is the concept of Image Units,
which is essentially a
plug-in architecture,
how you can make a filter and
put it on the system and have
it show up in other applications
that are hosts for Image Units.
And there is, while Core Image is really
focused on working on the GPU,
there is a CPU fallback available.
So if your GPU is not adequately
equipped with fragment programs and
the nice things that we utilize,
then it will run on the CPU.
And actually the CPU, it's a fallback,
but it is working pretty well,
actually fairly good,
very well optimized code.
So, why the GPU?
Well, there are essentially two reasons.
If you can put something on the GPU,
well, the CPU is free.
And CPU cycles are kind of a scarce
resource in whatever you're doing.
So that helps.
And the second reason is GPUs
actually are outpacing CPUs in a
number of interesting benchmarks
like memory bandwidth and the
floating point processing power.
So this graph down here
tries to illustrate that.
We essentially took a bunch
of image processing filters,
about five, stack them behind each other,
and then run it on different hardware.
So the first four are different
hardware configurations from
the iMac G4 to the dual 2.5 G5.
And that's interesting here because,
by the way,
the number is in megapixels per
second for that particular operation.
So the interesting thing here
is the dual G5 is actually about
four times faster than the iMac,
which makes sense.
It's twice the gigahertz and it's
twice the number of processors.
What about right?
So, if you look at the graphics cards,
there is,
if you take a low-end graphics card,
the GeForce FX 5200,
and compare that to the
high-end graphics cards,
then you actually get a factor of,
you know, almost 9.
And that's kind of a challenge
because a factor 4 is something
that your software can handle.
It means, well,
if you had 20 frames per second before,
now we have 5 frames per second.
So, it's not exactly good, but yeah,
you can live with that.
If you have a factor 10, well,
maybe you want to consider
Adding a special code into
your application that if it
detects if the gap is that big,
well, maybe we should do something else.
And for example,
if you have something like a
keynote presentation application,
if you can't do the transition smoothly,
well, maybe just fall back to a
dissolve or something like that.
Okay.
Well, on Mac OS X,
the way to access the GPU is OpenGL.
So let me tell a bit more about that.
There are essentially two different ways,
well, I see things,
I see two different ways
how you can use OpenGL.
Well,
one is use it as a low-level 3D renderer.
And the characteristics there,
you have high polygon count,
moderate amount of textures,
and you're doing a lot of work in
optimizing your scene and figuring
out which pieces you need to draw.
And the model new matrix is set up that
is a camera looking into a 3D scene.
And pretty much all 3D games you play,
ever played, are in that category.
Second category is using OpenGL more
as a pixel calculation engine.
In that case, you usually have a lot of
large textures and the geometry
is pretty much negligible.
And the model new matrix is
really set up to allow you
to address individual pixels.
So, I call that Quartz versus Quake.
And...
Since Jaguar,
the Windows Server compositor
was layered on top of OpenGL.
We call that Quartz Extreme.
It took essentially what Peter put it,
I think, two years ago as it removes
the transparency tax.
The cost of doing all that
compositing is now on the GPU and
from the CPU's perspective,
it's free.
This year,
Quartz Extreme also encompasses
the Quartz 2D Drawing API.
And Core Image uses
OpenGL in that way as well.
So why are we doing this?
Well, for an application developer,
using OpenGL efficiently is hard.
You have a lot of stuff you need
to learn about P buffers and the
right way to switch context so
that everything is still streamed
to the graphics card correctly.
And the goal of Core Image is
essentially to abstract you,
the developer, from that burden.
You should be able to concentrate
on drawing big quads with
video on it and that's it.
And not know about the 200 lines of code
underneath to manage all the buffers.
So after talking about
that much about hardware,
well here are actually
the hardware requirements.
So,
the key thing that Core Image needs is an
ARP fragment programmable graphics card.
And it works pretty much on any
ARP fragment programmable graphics card,
but more memory tends to be better,
especially with all these
other system services going
to the graphics card as well.
Well, more is better,
but it does work well on my laptop with
the ATI card which has 64 MB of memory.
So,
if the GPU isn't fragment programmable,
then we have a fallback
which uses the CPU.
And here the G4 and the G5
are strongly recommended.
It does work on a G3, however,
because all the computation
is done in floating point,
having that regular Velocity
Engine unit there is a great game.
And it supports multiple processors,
so if you have one of
these nice dual desktops,
then you will utilize your two
processors pretty much optimally.
So with that,
I would like to go to Demo Machine 2
and give you a bit of an impression
what kind of filters are available.
[Transcript missing]
Here I have a sepia tone filter and
more of the more pedestrian ones.
There is saturation.
That looks ugly.
Brightness and contrast.
You can make a monochrome image.
This is not terribly exciting,
but it turns out that these are actually
really useful in your workflows.
They have to be there.
So let me try to get some
more interesting stuff going.
Here is an edge detection filter.
Picture here, can do a bump distortion,
and if that's too scary,
let's make that a bit smaller.
Okay.
Now I have a glass distortion filter and
I can move the glass around like this.
Or modulate how thick
the glass actually is.
Yeah, more funky stuff like perspective,
transform, oops, that was a bit too much.
or put a spotlight on an image.
Things like that.
So there are about 60 of
those and some are fun,
some are useful, some are both.
You can also do effects on text,
which turns out to be
fairly interesting if you,
for example,
get your drawing out of Core Graphics
and then put effects on top of it.
So you can do things like that.
Or my favorite, the zoom blur.
Actually, Zoom Blur works even
better if I go and say,
"Fur to the edge detection
filter." Like this.
And then put the Zoom Blur on top of it.
I like that better.
So let me try to do something a bit more
useful and we had a bunch of artists
come up with scenarios that I could demo,
so I will just repeat one of them.
So here we have a guitar and
first thing I'm going to do...
I'm using the monochrome filter to
produce more of a blue-like look here.
And then...
Exposure to make it a bit darker.
Actually,
I want to focus on the hand here,
so I will add a spotlight.
Yeah, that's good.
And then let me add a
layer on top of this,
like the loose album text line art.
And at the very end,
Crop to frame.
And now I have a little album
cover for my blues band.
So the key thing here is that I stacked
a bunch of filters on top of each other
and all of these filters are still live.
None of these get the result
written back into main memory.
So I can still go and change the
blue tint in the middle or if
I don't like the spotlight I can
move it around underneath and so on.
So the next thing I would like to show,
we can actually handle
fairly decent sized images.
So what I showed before,
these were images pretty much
screen sized or projector sized.
This one here is different.
This one is an 11-megapixel image
and it's 16-bit per component,
so it's a 90-megabyte image total.
And, well, it's a 90-megabyte image,
but it goes to a 1-megapixel projector,
so you can't really see that much of it.
[Transcript missing]
There's a statue of a bull, and so on.
So let's do something on this
image and go back and use the
glass distortion I used before.
So let me show you,
you can actually see all the
detail in the glass distortion
applied to this 90 megabyte image.
So naturally, 90 megabytes,
this takes a bit longer.
It's not totally real time,
so if I drag this around you see it's
something like 3 to 4 frames per second.
But it still works and the key message
here is this is actually well beyond
the capabilities of the hardware.
The hardware has a texture limit,
a size limitation, and this image is big,
too big.
And Core Image goes and
cuts it into little tiles,
sends them up to the card,
does all the magic that for
every filter there's enough
information there to do its job,
and then stitches everything
together in the end so that you
can enjoy this on your screen.
So the last thing I would like to show
is, well, if it's fast,
you can also apply it to movies.
So here I have my little bump
distortion on this movie trailer.
I just have hours of fun with this.
Okay.
Or yeah, do the sepia tone.
And even then,
you can go and stack filters like
So let's do an edge detection
filter on this movie.
So, okay, I think you get the idea.
With that, let's go back to the slides.
So now, how does this all work?
So you essentially have to
know three core classes in
Core Image to use filters.
So the first one is the CI Image,
and to everybody's surprise,
that is an image.
So,
An image is typically something you
bring in from the outside world like a
JPEG file or it's the output of a filter.
And more on that a bit later.
There is a context which is the
other end of the workflow which
is the destination abstraction.
You build a context say on top of a
ZG context or an OpenGL context and
the context is where you draw into.
And the third thing,
third piece you need is the CI filter.
And the filter is what
actually does the work.
You put one side, the image comes in,
the filter modifies it somehow,
and then the output is an image.
You can either take that image
and pass it to the next filter
or draw it into the context.
So a bit more detail
about what the image does.
So an image can get created from,
for example, a CG image ref.
There's also a possibility you can
pass in NSData with row bytes and an
encoding or for an OpenGL texture.
And this is the API call you do,
in this case, for a CG image.
They all look very similar.
And typically the output of a
filter is a CI image and this is
the API call you do to get that out.
So an important thing here is that
A CI image can have infinite extent.
So if you imagine an infinite plane
with a checkerboard pattern on it,
that's a valid CI image.
I hope you will never try to draw
something with an infinite extent,
so better specify a sub-rectangle
you're really interested in.
So filters.
Filters are created by name.
So this case here we create
a filter with the sepia tone.
by name CICP at home.
And all the parameters that go into the
filter are set using key value coding.
So in this case down here,
I will create an NSNumber and set
it to the key input intensity.
And key value coding is also
how you get your output.
So you can ask the filter,
give me the value for key output image.
That's the output image.
So the reason why that is done is, well,
first reason is we're lazy.
We have 60 filters and we don't want
getters and setters for each one of them.
And the second one is this allows you
to introspect the capabilities of a
filter so you can build automatic UI and
support plug-ins and things like that.
So here's the part about introspection.
If you want to know what
filters are available,
well, solution one,
you go and read in the documentation.
Or solution two,
you ask the CF filter class,
give me all filters in
a specific category.
You can ask for give me all filters,
period.
Or give me all filters that are
transitions and suitable for video.
And then you get a reduced set.
There's a bunch of categories
for color adjustment,
geometric adjustment, things like that.
And there are attributes
like suitable for video,
suitable for interlaced data,
suitable for still images
and things like that.
So once you have a filter,
you can also ask the filter for, well,
what are your parameters?
What are the input keys and
what are the output keys?
And there's an attribute
dictionary you can get which
Sorry.
Which contains all the
metadata about an input.
So it has things like type.
This is a number, this is a vector,
this is an image.
And it has semantic information.
So for a number you could, for example,
have this is an angle,
this is a distance,
and if you want to put up a slider,
it's from this value to this value.
So the attributes dictionary
is fairly rich and allows
you to build automatic UI.
In fact, the demo I showed you,
I didn't write any UI code specific
to these two filters there.
They just introspect the
filter attributes and build,
okay, for each of these values,
add a slider for each of this
at a point that you can move
around and things like that.
So there is an interesting
detail behind that API.
It's fairly straightforward in the
sense it looks like immediate mode.
You take an image,
you pass it to the filter,
you get a new image out.
But what's really happening
behind the scenes is that
image hasn't been rendered.
The image you got back is
kind of an image recipe.
It's an image that contains
references to original data plus
a program that says what to do if
somebody really wants to draw this.
And it also contains a snapshot of the
parameters that were in the filter at the
time when you asked for the output image.
And the image is really only rendered
if you go to the context and say,
"Okay, draw this image." And that has a
bunch of interesting implications,
and pretty much all of them
related to performance.
So first of all,
if you take an image from one filter
and pass it to the next filter,
the next filter just says, "Okay,
I have this image here.
I'll append this program that
I need to execute," and just
passes the data further on.
So if you never draw, it's really,
really cheap.
But probably you want
to draw it at one time.
And at the time you draw,
there is a compiler
concatenating these programs,
and actually it's like
a just-in-time inliner,
that tries to,
for the target that you're drawing,
to produce an optimal program
that runs in these pixels.
So, concatenation of filter operations.
And the second thing it allows you
to do if you actually draw only a
sub-rectangle out of your image,
then it at that point knows which
pieces it actually needs to process.
So,
let me go on to that point a bit more.
So what this does is you can
have several components in your
app or the operating system that
conspire on an image computation.
So as an example down here,
I have an image that comes from the
Image I/O subsystem and it does a
color adjust and returns a new image.
That gets passed into
a different subsystem,
in this case a thumbnail renderer,
which scales the image
down and then draws it on,
I don't know,
a sheet with a bunch of thumbnails,
I guess.
Because all the operations are deferred,
at the very end, when the context sees,
well, I have to draw a small image,
and it propagates it all
back and figures out,
well, I could move that color adjust to
the right level and process far
less pixels than doing the color
adjust on the original size image.
So this is essentially an optimization
technique and it happens completely
transparently to the user of the API.
So let me give you a really
simple example how code with using
Core Image actually looks like.
In fact,
it's so embarrassingly simple you
might easily ask why would you
use Core Image at all for this,
but I'm going to build on it,
so stay with me.
So the first thing I'm doing
is creating a CI image.
In this case, I'm using a CG image ref.
The next step, I'm creating a context.
And again, I like CG,
so I'm using a CG context
ref on top of that.
And then I go and draw the image here.
And I specify two things.
One, I specify the point where
I'm going to draw it,
and I specify the sub-rect out
of the image I'm going to draw.
Remember that there are
infinite sized images,
so it's a really good idea to
specify a sub-rectangle in that case.
So let's add something
interesting in between,
which so far we just draw an image which,
uh,
It's hardly worth the
time I should spend on it.
So let's create a filter in the middle.
I create a CI color invert filter.
It's the simplest filter we have.
It inverts the colors and has no
parameters at all except one image.
And keys and values is a convenience
method to set all the keys and
values instead of having to call
individually for each one of them.
So it sets the input image
to the image we created.
And the draw image call,
instead of taking the original image,
it just asks the filter
for the output image.
And so this is our four lines of
code example how to use a filter.
So the bigger picture of things--
Everything that happens within
the space of Core Image happens
in a defined working space.
And that thing has two aspects to it.
There is a color working space
and a working coordinate space.
So imagine the diagram down here.
You have a bunch of images coming in.
It flows through a graph of filters
and then it exits to the context,
essentially.
So let me talk about the...
"Coordinate Space" first.
Coordinate Space is essentially an
infinite sized plane with a defined
origin where you can place your images.
And there are a bunch of filters
that do things like affine transforms
so you can move them around
and scale and things like that.
So that's pretty simple.
Again, this is the reason why you have
to specify a sub-rectangle at
the very end when you actually
draw out of that working space.
The color space is a
bit more interesting.
So color matching happens
on input and output.
If an image comes in,
is tagged with a color space,
it gets converted into
a working color space.
All the processing is done
in that working color space,
and on output there is a conversion
to the context color space.
Which, for example,
if you created off a CG context,
you don't have to do anything,
it figures it out directly.
The default working space is CChemo2.
CChemo2 has a bunch of interesting
properties for image processing.
First one is it's light linear.
So if you imagine you have
two flashlights and they
point at the same spot on,
I don't know, this stage,
then the amount of light that is
reflected is somehow proportional to
the light from one flashlight plus
the light of the other flashlight.
Light linear essentially means
that the math inside your filter
program has that proportion.
And we'll have an example
for that a bit later.
And the second one is
it has infinite gamut.
So CChemo2 doesn't clamp
colors to 0/1 range.
So if you, for example,
have a YCbCr image coming in from
video and you want to process it,
if you convert it to RGB,
if you clamp to 0/1,
you will lose some color.
But because it has an infinite gamut,
in this case it doesn't.
So conversion from YCbCr to
RGB and back is lossless.
There's a bit of secret sauce
on the color space issue
when it comes to CI images.
And the color space of
a CI image can be nil.
But that means you're telling the system,
this image, I'll give you an image,
but it actually doesn't
contain any color information.
So for example,
if you have elevation maps,
normal vectors,
or actually function tables you want
to pass into your filter kernel,
then clearly you don't want to have color
matching on your sampled asign function.
So nil is the color
space used in that case.
So note that there is a
subtle difference between nil,
which means this isn't
colors or don't match,
and this is already
in device color space.
If you want to send an image in that
is already in the device color space,
just tag it with the working space.
Then Core Image will say, OK,
image and working space are the same,
so there's no work to be done here.
Let me try to give you an
example why this matters.
So what I did, I took a tripod,
put my camera on it,
and took a picture with bracketing on.
So I have three different exposures
of the same scene and it's two
f-spots apart from left to right.
So this is physics.
This is letting more light through
the shutter by keeping it open longer.
So what I'm doing now is
take that leftmost image,
darkest one, and try to simulate the same
thing inside Core Image.
So I take that image.
And multiply all the numbers by two,
gives me the middle one.
Multiply the numbers by two again,
gives me the end one.
This is why that CCAM two
color space matters.
It actually matches what physics does.
So for comparison,
if you actually do that
in device color space,
so skip all the color matching,
The results are rather different.
So for your application that means,
for example,
if you're dealing with photographs,
you can have an exposure adjust UI and
it actually produces the same results
that the user is used to from his camera.
Okay, let me switch gears here a
little and talk about the overall
model behind the architecture.
And it's based on this SIGGRAPH paper,
"Modeler for Efficient and Flexible
Image Computing" by Michael Schanzes.
And it's published in SIGGRAPH '94.
And it essentially explains how to build
The pipeline of image processing
operations and how to propagate through
that pipeline all the information that
is needed to do the operation in the end.
And actually Shake is
based on the same model.
So I will use the terms
out of that paper because,
well, why invent something new
if it's already been done?
So there are two key concepts here.
The first one is the
domain of definition.
Domain of definition is essentially
the area of an image that is,
in the broadest sense, interesting,
meaning that everything outside that
domain of definition is transparent.
As I mentioned before,
the domain of definition
could be infinite,
but for pretty much every be
an image you load from disk?
It's probably not.
Second term is the region
of interest or ROI.
So when you actually draw at the
very end of your filter chain,
you specify the area that you want
to pick out of the working space.
This is called the region of interest.
So here's an example how this works.
So at leftmost image is the
original image and then do
the zoom blur filter on it,
which you saw before.
So the domain of definition
of the original image is,
well, the extent of the image.
The domain of definition of the filtered
image is larger because the filter
bleeds out into neighboring pixels.
So when I actually go,
and now I'm at the bottom
right corner of this diagram,
and draw a sub-rectangle,
in this case the duck's eye,
out of that scene,
that region of interest is propagated
back into the original image.
So the filter has to have all of
the yellow area in the bottom left
corner available to do its operation.
And what it does,
it intersects the region of interest and
the domain of definition of the source,
and that's the real data
that needs to be fetched.
So why is that important?
If you write your own filters,
you actually have to provide
functions that do this mapping.
With that we come to the topic
of how to write your own filters.
So there are essentially two more
classes that you need to know on
top of the three I mentioned before,
how to write your own filters.
There's the CI kernel which
represents the per pixel operation.
It's essentially a little program
that produces a pixel at the output
and it can have things in it like
looking up pixels in the source
image at various places or just math
or scaling and things like that.
And there is the CI Sampler which
is the kind of the mediator between
the kernel and the original image.
Sampler is an accessor function.
So when you go and say "give
me the pixel at coordinate x,
y" then the sampler will kick in
and do some magic things to that.
So a sampler has two key elements.
It has an interpolation style,
so you have to know which,
whether you want to do linear
interpolation or no interpolation.
It has wrap mode attributes,
so if you ask outside the
DoD what should happen.
So the kernel here, um... Yeah,
sorry about that.
The kernel represents
the per pixel operation.
And I have a little sample here.
This is the magnifier code
I showed in the previous demo,
the little circle that
showed you the Eiffel Tower.
That's pretty much all there is to it.
There is a distance computation to
make the little gradient on the side
and pick out the right scaled pixels.
With that,
I'll go back to demo machine number two.
Some point?
Okay.
So what I'm going to show you now
is essentially more of the same,
but now that you have
the overall concept,
I can explain a bit more what's going on.
So the first thing I'm doing,
this is a little test app, by the way,
that we wrote to figure
out how the framework,
how to tune the framework,
and it has a nice aspect that it
visualizes nicely what's going on.
So I'll take an image, hibiscus here,
then I pipe that through,
let's say the bump distortion
filter you saw before,
and then display it.
So this is the output image.
And in the top left corner
you see that little flow,
how the data flows through.
So this is the bump
distortion you saw before,
I can move that around.
And it has a bunch of parameters
like the radius and things like that.
So the first thing I mentioned
is that there is a CPU fallback.
So what this case here is doing,
Is the bump distortion
running on the GPU?
And it's probably really
hard to read in the audience,
but there is a little frame rate
indicator in the bottom left corner,
and it says this runs
at 93 frames per second.
So let me go and switch...
and switch this to use
the CPU renderer instead.
And you see it's a bit more chunky,
but the CPU renderer runs on, yeah,
about 20 to 25 frames per
second for this operation.
and he produced the same result,
which is kind of surprising at times.
So let me try to build a bit more
complicated example that shows
the power behind the framework,
especially when the just-in-time
compiler kicks in and does some
more or less smart things at times.
So let me start with the edge
detection filter you saw before.
So it looks like this.
Let's make these edges really visible.
And I'm going to change
the image as well.
So let's open an image like Core Image.
Make a little wire here,
I'm going to need that a bit later.
So this is the edge detection
filter on Core Image line art.
So far, not that interesting.
I'm going to add a new filter for...
Exposure Adjustment.
And then I'm adding the zoom
blur I showed you before.
So this is how the zoom
blur image looks like.
Let me make that a bit...
So this is the zoom
blur effect on line art.
At the very end I'm going
to add a compositing mode,
in this case "Addition".
and add the original image
back to the Zoom Blur image.
So this looks like this.
So it looks like that.
And with the mouse I'm just moving
the origin of the zoom blur around.
So you can easily imagine
that if you want to do some
visual effects on line art,
building some interesting
visuals with this is pretty easy.
And that's the key where the
compiler actually comes in.
Most of these operations actually
are collapsed into single pass.
It's only the zoom blur which already
does multiple passes toward this,
to create this effect that still
has multiple passes in the very end,
but everything else is collapsed.
www.microsoft.com/mechanics/coreimage-im
ages
I would like to ask Mark Zimmer up
on the stage to explain to you how to
actually write one of those things.
Thanks, Ralph.
Okay, the fun part about this is writing
your own image processing kernel.
The thing about core image is that
it does come with 60-plus filters,
but if they're not really
the filters that you want,
or you can't put them together
like you just saw into a
graph to do what you want,
or that graph that you did put
together is not running fast enough,
then you may want to
write your own kernel.
In fact,
that turns out to be one of the things in
Tiger that really runs much faster than
anything we've ever produced in the past.
Think about it.
So you can basically make your
Tiger Roar by building your own filter.
So creating your own plug-in filter
in Core Image is something that you
can do and basically when you do that
you end up creating a pixel shader to
program a GPU and it's something that
sounds actually pretty complicated but
as it turns out it's really very simple.
The neat thing is that these filters,
once you've created them,
are first-class citizens.
So that means your filter can
run as fast as our filters.
You basically are going to concentrate
on the kernel implementation.
Most of the stuff around there represents
a small fraction of what you do.
A lot of your time will be spent
working on the actual shader.
So, filters are based on
Objective-C at the top level.
They have a few methods which you'll see
and it's pretty simple to create one.
It has an image processing kernel
which is the fun part and you'll see
what I'm talking about in a minute.
All of the filters that you've seen
so far have kernels and are built
on top of the GL shading language
and we have a special variant of
that called the CI kernel language.
The filter is embedded in the
Image Unit Bundle structure
which Frank Doepke will talk
about in the next speaker.
Cool thing about this,
I've been writing image processing
effects essentially for 18 years.
I found that this was the easiest
way to write them and it produced
the fastest results for any
filter that I've worked on.
So for instance,
the Zoom Blur filter that I produced
ended up being about a hundred times
faster than the same filter in Photoshop.
Alright,
that's running on a G4 1.4 dual anyway.
So,
let's talk about the Objective-C portion.
What you do is you're going
to build a class definition
that's subclassing CI filter.
In the class definition you
will define your input keys.
The init method of that basically helps
you to locate your kernel which is going
to be in a text file from the bundle.
It's actually pretty simple
although it's several steps.
The custom attributes method
helps you to specify key defaults
and ranges for your input keys.
That's particularly useful if you
load your filter into a program
that automatically produces UI such
as Quartz Composer or any of
the demo apps that you saw here.
The output image method finally is
something that helps you to take your,
okay let's talk about this,
take a step back.
The kernel is executed once per pixel.
So, what you want to do is take
everything inside of there.
It doesn't need to be there and hoist it
into the Objective-C output image method.
So, that's what I mean by performing
pixel loop invariant calculations.
Anything you can hoist or
constant fold is pulled out.
It will organize your
input keys as you'll see.
It calls the kernel using an apply
method which is a filter method.
And then it also helps you to specify the
domain of definition of the operation.
That's part of the apply as you'll see.
Okay, so the Funhaus filter,
which is demonstrated
up here in the corner,
shows how,
is something I think has been shown here,
is something that we're now
showing a class definition for.
You'll see input image,
which is basically your one
image that comes into it.
You'll see three parameters: the center,
the width, and the amount.
So, we're creating an interface for that.
Notice the header files at the top:
Quartz Core, Core Image.h,
I hope I got that right.
All right, okay.
Now, the init method is kind of,
this is where things get a
little bit more complicated.
And what we're trying to do here is
we're trying to locate our kernel
from the bundle and process it.
So, the first thing you do
is to find your bundle,
so it's bundled for class.
The second thing you
do is to load up code,
basically string with contents of file.
So you've located your bundle,
you brought it in as a,
it's like opening a text file
and putting it into a string.
The third thing you do
is to, the clicker's got to work.
I probably have my hand
in front of the thing.
Okay,
is to basically use the CI kernel kernels
with string method to extract all of the
kernels from the contents of that file.
And what happens is there's multiple
kernels per file if you want,
but usually a filter will only have one.
The reason you might want multiples
is so you can do multiple pass
operations internally to a filter.
And that's useful for various things.
If you wanted to build a blur,
for instance, you really would have
to use multiple passes.
Okay.
There we go.
The custom attributes method,
this is something I'll
pretty much skim over.
It's not massively important.
For this, you see input width is defined
with a range and a given default.
Also, its type is defined, type distance.
There's type scalar, there's angles,
there's other possible types.
Check the header out
for the various types.
You'll also have to set the
ranges and defaults for input
amount and input center,
which are the two other keys,
non-image keys.
They'll be provided here as well,
I just didn't show them.
The output image method is
probably the most important
part of the Objective-C level.
And you'll see the apply
method being called there.
And it gets passed the kernel and also
the other parameters of the filter.
It's important to note that the
parameters in the filter have to mirror
exactly what's being passed into the
kernel in the kernel program itself.
So what we're doing here,
we have 1 over radius,
1 over 10 to the float
value of input amount,
etc.
These are things that we sort of constant
folded and put into here so we won't
have to do them in the kernel program.
And as always,
parameters are passed as objects.
So we're using NSNumber.
If you were passing a coordinate,
you'd pass a CI vector.
If you were passing a color,
you'd pass CI color.
And of course,
the images are passed as samplers.
So you'll see how we load the
sampler and then pass it in there.
So that's really all you have
to do inside of your filter.
Except now we're getting to
the most interesting part.
You know,
if filters were like a piece of candy,
then I suppose the shader part,
which processes the pixels,
you'd probably consider that the soft,
chewy center, the best part.
This is the part you want to spend
your time thinking about what to do.
Okay, we're using a subset of the GL,
the OpenGL shading language here.
You can specify multiple kernels.
Other functions can be
included for modularity's sake.
If you have something that's
used multiple times and
you want to extract it,
you can basically treat it
like you would normal C.
This is the place where you're
going to want to go to find out
about the OpenGL shading language.
So, opengl.org/documentations/oglsl.html.
Okay, each kernel procedure gets
called once per pixel.
I mentioned this before,
and it becomes important when you
decide how to build your shader.
When you are building your shader,
another thing you should know is
that there is no knowledge passed
or accumulated from pixel to pixel.
So it's kind of like a ray tracer.
You don't know anything else but
what you're doing for this pixel.
Think of it that way.
And like I said before,
hoist as much invariant
calculation as you can out.
Anything you can do is going to save time
because it gets executed once per pixel.
When you pass in color,
remember the colors are
pre-multiplied alpha,
and in general, so are the images.
Okay,
so here's some effects you can look at.
There's the original image,
there's the Funhaus effect which
provides sort of a distortion in X,
the Edges effect which
everybody seems to like to show,
got shown in the keynote,
and the Spotlight effect.
These effects are all
going to be shown here.
So let's start with a little
fun in the shader here.
We've got the displacement effect.
One thing you should notice for
displacement effects is if you
want to do a displacement effect,
you want to sort of operate
using the inverse transform.
In other words,
for the destination point,
what the source point is.
Anybody who's done, you know,
in the texture that you're loading,
anybody who's done an image processing
transform or a displacement transform
will know this is how it works.
It's kind of the opposite of, you know,
where does my pixel go?
It's, you know, the opposite thing.
So in this case here,
we start by loading the dest cord.
This is a built-in function in our
kernel language that allows you
to load the location in working
coordinates of the current pixel.
Then you want to apply the transform.
So I'm subtracting a center X,
multiply radius, whatever,
blah blah blah.
Basically what it does is it's
going to distort T1.X which
is the destination coordinate.
Finally, we fetch the displaced sample.
And what we're doing here is
we're using the sample function,
again, from the sampler,
and the coordinates
being passed in is T1.
But what we have to do is we need
to run it through sampler transform.
This is if that sampler actually
is referenced under transform.
So it will take care of that for you.
If you don't want the sampler to
be referenced under transform,
then I guess you can just use sampler
coord instead of sampler transform.
I'll show you that method.
At the end, I'll talk about it.
And... is this battery running out?
Is that what's going on?
Okay.
All right, the edges effect,
which seems to be shown quite a bit,
is really quite simple.
What it is is a cross-gradient function.
And one thing you want to remember
is when you do calculations in here,
particularly on things like vec4s,
which is R1, R3, R2, R0,
what's happening is you're doing
all the operations component-wise.
So you're using the power of
the vector instructions to get
it done several times faster,
even inside the shader itself.
Remember that the graphics cards
are actually multi-pipelines.
So what that means is it's doing,
you know, when I say R1 minus R3 there,
it actually does four
subtractions simultaneously.
But there's also multiple pipes,
so it's times the number of pipes,
which is the number of calculations
happening at the same time.
So you can actually get, you know,
20 gigaflops on these cards quite easily.
Okay, so the first thing we do is
load a neighborhood of samplers,
of samples, sorry.
And that's just a square neighborhood,
very simple.
Okay, then the second thing we do is
to compute the cross-gradient.
So we're subtracting a
cross-gradient like so.
And then we're doing the least squares
computation and multiplying by the scale,
so we can scale up or down the edges.
And then I just throw in an alpha of 1
at the end just so it will be visible.
It doesn't really have a reasonable
value that you might want to put there.
Okay, the final example is the spotlight.
And often when you're
doing a 2D rendering,
you'll want to use some kind of a 3D
effect on it to make it look cool.
In this case here,
we're doing a spotlight.
The spotlight is done in the shader.
This is probably the
most complicated shader.
The first thing I do is
to get the pixel color.
So that's the color that we're shading.
Okay, second thing I do is to
calculate the vector to the light
source and then normalize it.
Because I'm assuming the
picture is in the XY plane,
the normal to the picture is 001.
So if I, so n.l, where n is 001,
means that the n.l is
going to be r0.z here.
Okay, and then I calculate the
light solid angle cosine.
This tells me how much light
is being put into that spot.
So it's just really a cosine,
a dot product is for
calculating the cosine.
Then I raise it to a power to
concentrate it and make it a little,
you know,
so if you wanted to have a concentrated
or a wide spread or a thin spread.
Then finally,
I calculate the pixel color by
multiplying n.l by the light color by R1,
which is the color of the pixel,
times the beam concentration.
That gives me the final
result for the spotlight.
It's not really a lot to it, really.
When you talk about the
OpenGL Shading Language,
let me just sort of
go over it in general.
The first thing is it uses
standard C precedents,
and it looks pretty much like C.
The second thing is that there
is no coercion in this language,
which means if you want
to add an int to a float,
it's going to give you an
error when it compiles it.
So you should have a constants should be
specified for floating point as like 1.0,
0.0.
Okay.
The third thing is you noticed in
those examples we have float variables,
scalar, or we have vector variables,
vec2, vec3, vec4,
which are vectors of floats.
There's also Boolean vectors
and such things as that.
But basically,
the vector variables are how you
get a lot of the computation done.
The built-in functions,
I should talk a little bit about it.
The first row of built-in functions,
sine, cos, pow, et cetera,
those are kind of the
more expensive functions,
with the ones at the beginning
kind of being more expensive
than the ones at the end.
Square root or inverse square
root It's actually pretty cheap.
But, you know, if you have like...
Sign calls in a fragment program,
you know,
it may be a very slow fragment program.
The second line, these are practically
zero cost functions,
or they cost one instruction.
Things like absolute value, sign, floor,
etc.
They're all available for you.
And then there's the
things like distance,
normalize, etc.
which are extremely useful in doing
radial or centric kind of calculations.
Also, it uses a swizzle syntax
for load and mass store.
So you can reference something
like R0.R for the red component
or R0.RGB for the red,
green, and blue components of it.
In particular, when you're doing a store,
it really just says which of the
components you're storing into.
The language for CI Kernels
is the OpenGL shading.
We've added two things to it.
In particular,
we've added the kernel specifier,
which you've seen in each example.
The sampler type is used to
declare image parameters.
DeskCord is added to give
you the working coordinates
location of the current pixel.
There's a sample function which
allows you to do a texture map lookup.
So it's very simple,
as you saw in all the examples.
There's a sample.
SamplerCord is for giving you
the location on that sample,
and that's actually how
you access a texture unit,
if you're familiar with OpenGL.
So each sampler may get
its own texture unit.
The sampler transform is one
where a sampler may have an
affine transform applied to it,
and that's how you can make
sure that is preserved also.
It literally generates instructions.
We use the __ColorType to
define Vec4s that are color
matched inside of your shader.
And finally,
because colors are pre-multiplied,
if you're doing something like a
color transform operation like,
well, invert is a good example,
color invert,
or any kind of color control, brightness,
contrast, the first thing you want to do
is un-premultiply that color.
Then do your light linear transform.
"And make sure you preserve alpha in your
transform if that's what you want to do.
So there are some things like for
instance if you just want to scale,
you know,
do an opacity calculation you can
do on the entire color without
pre-multiply or un-pre-multiply.
You could multiply your VEC4 color
by the opacity fraction to get a
pre-multiplied color that was correct.
Okay, and basically that's the entire,
that's how to write the
internals of a filter.
Now I'd like to introduce...
[Transcript missing]
Thank you, Mark.
Good afternoon.
As you can see,
I'm the packaging expert on the... how
we put the eye candy now into the box.
So what are Image Units?
Image Units is our architecture that
you can provide a plug-in that we
can use in any application that will
use the Core Image architecture.
And for that we chose NSBundle as the
delivery mechanism for the whole part.
And that makes it very easy to write,
actually, in Image Units.
The key point here is that this is
actually your business opportunity.
We know that this is something
that we only introduced in Tiger,
but we have
"We're going to talk about how
applications will pick up this
technology and we already talked
our applications division and
"In the future on our stuff,
so there's a good opportunity that
you can buy just a filter and have
a good audience of like people who
want to use these filters later."
One concept that is interesting to know
here is we have a non-executable filter.
That means we just have a CI kernel,
that's all what UHDCD would
provide in your plug-in,
and you don't have any
CPU executable code.
It's important when you talk about
security sensitive applications like
some system servers or if you have like
something like the screen saver you want
to pass around and those you definitely
don't want to have any kind of Trojan
horses or viruses in it since they will
be executed without you even know it.
So now let me talk a little
bit like where do we actually
store these image units.
Location is the key point here
and we have two spots where we
would normally introduce them.
And those are the graphics
plugins architecture,
sorry, folders inside the system library
folder or the user library folder.
That's where the custom
load API basically will
look and find your filters.
If your application has additional
filters that they just want
to have in your own bundle,
we have an API that will
load those units one by one.
So you have to call those by yourself.
And on that part,
that brings me over a little bit to
the structure of our image units.
And you can see I put up a little
screenshot like how it looks in Xcode.
And as you can see in the very top part,
I have a little loader part.
That's all like my Objective-C code.
And then I stole Mark's filter.
The Funhouse filter,
which has some Objective-C stuff in it.
And then we see there's
in the resources part,
that's where the in terms
of image units is right now.
We have the CI kernels,
which as Mark explained are
really the core of the filter.
And we have a description P list.
And that is the part which gives us
the part what is really inside this
image unit and what do I get out of it.
Especially important for the
non-executable ones because we
have to communicate somehow,
okay, which are the parameters
that I can pass in and out.
And we provide also a way that you
can put in your localization into it.
So you can provide your
filter for multiple languages.
From there let me go to the API,
which you can see is really extensive.
We have three calls that are
important for the loading.
The first one will just load all filters.
The second one will only
load the non-executable ones.
So if you write an application where
you want to make sure that I cannot
load any security sensitive plug-ins,
that will be the call to use.
And the third one is the one
that you would use if you have
your image units in a specific,
your own application bundle
and you want to load those.
So you would just go through
your folder and each of the
bundles that you find there,
you would load them with this API call.
On the other hand,
when we look into the plug-in side,
we have a very simple call that we recall
on the primary class of the NSBundle,
and that is the load call.
And you can see this
actually returns a Boolean.
So this is a place where you can,
for instance, do your registration,
or you can check your
hardware requirements.
You can say, "Oh, well,
that's a serial number that ends on a 3.
I'm not running that machine."
So I can send you return false,
and the filter will not be loaded.
So then from there,
I would like to go to demo machine 2.
Okay, what we see here is now again
the Xcode project and I just want
to get quickly over the stuff.
Since we've seen how the
Funhouse filter works,
I won't go too much into details there.
But I show you now an example of a
non-executable filter and this is
my filter function that I have here.
This is something like a pixelate filter,
just does a slight twist to it.
And then at the end,
I have the description "plist".
So the only part that's kind of
important to know about my little
kernel is that I have like two
parameters that I need to pass in.
So it takes an sampler,
which is my image,
and I have a scale vector on it.
So I open now the description
plist in our plist editor.
It might be a little bit hard
hopefully for you to read,
but I try to go with it so that
you understand what I'm doing here.
In the description plist you
see that I have two filters.
We have in the first part the
Funhouse Mirror filter and
just my simple kernel filter.
The important part are
then the attributes.
And as Ralph mentioned in the beginning,
we have different categories.
So I can see this is a distortion effect,
that's how I can detect it.
It's suitable for video
and also for still images.
This is my display name.
Kind of pay attention that here
it's still my kernel filter.
I'm actually using our localization
technique so that it will actually
later on in the UI show up as a correct
and a little bit more nicer name.
And then the important part
is actually the inputs.
And I have two of them,
as I already mentioned in the beginning.
One part is an image,
so I just give it a class and say, "Well,
this is my input image."
And the second part to it,
I have an NSNumber,
which is the scale of my floating,
so I can just set some
scale point up here.
And that's pretty much all I need.
So all what I do now is basically
I would have to build this bundle
once and put it in the right location,
and now I can use it in my applications.
And for this,
I go into the Quartz Composer.
So right now what I set up
is just simply an image that
will be shown on the screen.
So this looks like this.
And we have a surfer.
And now, I can simply go in here and
look into my distortion effects.
Look there, it's my kernel filter,
and you see it has a
little bit more nicer name.
And all that I will do now is simply
reroute the image through that filter.
And run this thing again.
And you see,
it looks like a little bit pixelated.
And I can do the same thing
with the Funhouse filter,
which we also have in here.
And let me reroute that through here.
And as you can clearly see
on the side of the image,
there's a distortion.
That is basically how easy it is to
create one and how to use it as well.
And as no pixels were heard
in this demonstration,
I would like to pass back to
Ralph to finish up our demonstration.
Thank you.
I said that no pixels
were hurt in this demo.
That's not totally true.
There were two.
But they had it coming.
Okay, so the key message—let me
get back to the first one.
So what I'm going to do now
is give you some ideas what
we could do with these things.
I assume if you're in the business
of writing an application that
deals with photographs or video,
you should have a good idea
by now what to do with it.
But there are actually
applications where the use of
core images isn't totally obvious,
but could actually
make a nice difference.
So first thing I would like
to say here is the key message
that in this millennium,
image processing is something that
happens in the display pipeline.
There is no separate render stage.
Core image essentially does most
of the things in real time today.
On next year's hardware,
most likely it does a very significant
portion of what we would ever want
to do on an image in real time.
So if you're building an application
that has—these are a bunch of things.
These are a bunch of settings,
and then you press apply and
it gets rendered into a bitmap,
and that's probably
the wrong UI to pursue.
Instead, try to make the application
respond in real time.
So you have a slider,
and as the user moves the slider around,
the image data is processed right away.
And this has a bunch of
interesting implications.
For example, if you have an undo buffer.
In the last millennium,
undo buffers on images were
really quite a science.
You have to keep megabytes of data
around for each stage that you're doing.
In this case, you no longer do that.
You just have your filter
and a handful of parameters.
And the only thing that the undo really
affects is these handful of parameters.
So things like infinite undo
on an image is almost trivial.
Trivial.
So here's a bunch of ideas
what to do with it while you're
processing photographs and video,
using it for transition effects,
or work on creating a
richer user interface.
We're running kind of late on time here,
so I'm going to switch
to the demo right away.
Demo machine two, please.
Okay, so the first thing
I would like to demo...
Which key is it?
Here.
Well, you saw Dashboard in the keynote.
And when I take something
and drag it here,
you see this little ripple effect.
And that's Core Image at work.
So this is an example how you
can put Core Image somewhere in a
little piece of your application
and do something nice with it.
So let's do that again,
just because it was so much work
to make that ripple working.
[Transcript missing]
First one is a little toy.
When I'm really bored in airplanes,
and that happens a lot,
I take pictures out of the window
and unfortunately it looks like this.
The key problem is there's just
so much air between you and your
subject and it produces haze effect
and it looks completely washed out.
So I tried to build a filter that
tries to correct some of this.
So, this slider here tries to simulate
the distance to the ground
at the bottom of the image.
So I'll kind of move that
around and let's see,
this is about the brown that you
would expect from the ground.
And then this slider here,
the second one,
is the distance at the top.
So it assumes there is a
slanted plane you're looking at.
So you can figure that around like this.
And by the way,
this is Crater Lake in Oregon.
So just to, where did I put it, here.
So this is the before/after
shot essentially.
And it's not exactly a particularly
problem that you encounter all the time.
It's a very specific solution.
I would probably never have
attempted it to do if it would
have taken me a half a day of work.
But with Core Image it was literally
40 minutes of work so I could,
well,
not experiment a bit and try to do this.
"Clearly, the white point isn't right,
so that mountain needs some adjustment."
So, and by the way,
the source code for that and as well
the source code of how to build an image
unit is available on the Apple website.
Sursko is also available
for this example here.
This is essentially doing nine different
transitions all at the same time.
And why do I show that?
This is an example of what new
types of UI this could enable.
Imagine an application like Keynote,
which has a widget to select the
transition between one slide to the next.
Well, today that widget is a pop-up menu
and a little preview at the bottom.
But with the power of
Core Image at your hands,
you could actually go and say, "Well,
skip the pop-up,
just show all transitions at the same
time." The user just clicks on one.
This makes a more compelling UI because,
well, it's clearly more discoverable what
kind of functionality is available.
And I have to admit I was
cheating for this demo.
This morning,
I found a bug in our GPU implementation
with this particular case.
So this is actually running
on the software . OK,
with that, we go back to the slides.
So, where to go from now?
Well, tomorrow morning there's
the Graphics and Media Lab.
My colleagues and I will be
there if you have questions,
that's the right place to go.
If you're interested in how to use
Core Image together with Video,
then the new directions for
QuickTime Performance is
the session to go to.
You will learn about Core Video and
how to create pipe video
frames through Core Image.
And on Friday, there is the Discovering
Quartz Composer session.
You saw it in Frank's section.
Quartz Composer is a really great
tool to just wrap in a prototype,
string a bunch of filters together,
figure out how things look,
and if you build your own filters,
it will load them,
so that's just a session to check out.
For more information, well,
there's documentation available.
Actually on the Tiger DVD,
there is the reference on
Core Image and on the Apple website,
connect.apple.com,
is the actual architecture
and fairly rich set of,
all filters are in there with an image,
you know, before,
after that explains what they're doing.
That's a great way to start.